---
    title: MCL338 Mechatronic Applications in Manufacturing
---
**Credits:** 4 (3-0-2)



**Prerequisites:** [[/Electrical Engineering/ELL101 | ELL101]]

Overlaps with: MEL749, EEL482

#### Description 
Introduction to mechatronic systems and components, Review of manufacturing and need and integration of mechatronics at different levels, Principles of basic electronics, Digital electronics review: number system, gates, flip-flops, counters, registers, tri-state concept, TTL and CMOS circuits, memories. Embedded electronics, Basics of Microcontroller & Microprocessors architecture and instruction set, machine cycles, interrupts, instruction set, memory and I/O interfacing, programming techniques, Timer/ Counters, Serial Interfacing and communications, Interfacing to keyboards and displays, Standard busses. Microcontrollers and their applications, integrated circuits, sensors, actuators, and other electrical/electronic hardware in mechatronic systems. Microprocessor based measurement and control: D/A and A/D conversion, data acquisition systems, encoders, interfacing of motors and transducers. Selection of mechatronic components, namely sensors like encoders and resolvers. Stepper and servomotors; Solenoid like actuators; Transmission elements like Ball screw and Controllers. Analysis of mechatronic systems with applications to motion control, robotics, CNC systems, and others. Case studies of applications in process and discrete manufacturing.

Laboratory work will be hands-on Microcontroller & Microprocessor interfacing and programming, Motion controller, motors, sensors, and actuators.