---
    title: APL105 Mechanics of Solids and Fluids
---
**Credits:** 4 (3-1-0)



**Prerequisites:** [[/Applied Mechanics/APL100 | APL100]]

Overlaps with: APL104, APL106, APL107, APL108

#### Description 
Fluid Mechanics MATHEMATICAL PRELIMINARIES: Cartesian Tensors, Index Notation, Integral Theorems. INTRODUCTION: Basic Concepts and Definitions, Solids and Fluids, Internal and external forces on a fluid element. PROPERTIES OF FLUID: Rheological Equation and Classification of fluids, Normal and Shear Stresses, Concept of Pressure, pressure gradient. STATICS OF FLUIDS: Types of Forces on Fluid Element, Mechanics of Fluid at Rest and in rigid body motion, Manometry, forces on fully and partially submerged bodies, stability of a floating body. KINEMATICS OF FLUID MOTION: Types of fluid motion, Stream lines, Streak and path lines, Acceleration and Rotation of a fluid particle, Vorticity and Circulation, Stream Function, Irrotational flow and Velocity Potential function. DYNAMICS OF AN IDEAL FLUID: Continuity and Euler’s Equations of Motion, Bernoulli Equation, Applications to Flow Measurement and other real flow problems. MECHANICS OF VISCOUS FLOW: Navier Stokes equations, exact solutions, Laminar flow through a pipe, Turbulent flow through a pipe, Friction factor, Applications to Pipe Networks. DIMENSIONAL ANALYSIS: Similarity of motion, Dimensionless numbers, Modeling of fluid flows, Applications. INTEGRAL ANALYSIS: Reynolds Transport Theorem, Control Volume Analysis.

Solid Mechanics: State of stress at a point, equations of motion, principal stress, maximum shear stress. Concept of strain, strain displacement relations, compatibility conditions, principal strains, transformation of stress/strain tensor, state of plane stress/strain. Constitutive relations, uniaxial tension test, idealized stress-strain diagrams, isotropic linear elastic and elasto-plastic materials. Energy Methods. Uniaxial stress and strain analysis of bars, thermal stresses, Torsion, Bending, Stability of Equilibrium.