Credits: 3 (2-0-2)

Department: Centre for Biomedical Engineering

Prerequisites: [[APL100]], [[ELL101]], [[MCP100]]

Introduction to healthcare challenges in India, which can be met with products for diagnosis, prevention, and treatment. What is Biomechanics, Different types of biomechanics, Gait Analysis, Tissue Mechanics, Computational and Experimental Modelling Techniques, Device Tissue Interactions. What are Biomaterials? Categories, and their use across implants, tissue replacements, medical devices, and other biomedical applications. Fabrication methods and Applications in Medical Device Development, Wound Healing, Tissue Engineering (Bioprinting) and Drug Delivery. Bioelectronic Devices, Wearable devices, Bionic Prosthetics and Orthotics. Biosensors for Disease Diagnosis and Monitoring. Role of Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML). Biomedical Imaging Techniques. Multiscale Imaging Modalities: From Cells to Organs. Overview of MRI, CT, and Ultrasound. Diagnosis of Key Diseases and Injuries. Latest Innovations in Medical Imaging. Medical Devices and Implants. Different device Classes, their Fabrication, Testing, and Regulatory requirements. Mechanical Stability, Biocompatibility, Corrosion, Fatigue and Failure. Recent Innovations in Healthcare Products, Clinical Testing. Careers in Biomedical Engineering, Advanced Academic and Industry Research, Start-up, and Giving back to the Society.

Hands on experiments on Soft Tissue Characterization, Fabrication of Biomaterials, Gait Analysis, Sensor Fabrication, EEG and EMG, Signal Processing, Data Analysis and AI-ML Application, Imaging Modalities (MRI, CT, Ultrasound), and Implant Manufacturing.