---
        title: MCL142 Thermal Science for Electrical Engineers
---
Credits: 3 (3-0-0)

Department: Department of Mechanical Engineering

Overlaps with: MCL140, MCL141, CLL121

Introduction to applications. Basic concepts and definitions – system, boundary, equilibrium, steady state and others. Thermodynamic properties of a pure substance – saturated and other states. Work and heat – definition and applications. 1st Law – internal energy and enthalpy, applications to non-flow/closed and flow/open systems (SSSF and USUF). 2nd Law – corollaries, Clausius inequality, entropy. Carnot cycle. Basics of gas-vapor mixtures. Vapor power cycles – Rankine cycle and its modifications. Steam generation and its use – power plants, co-generation, combined cycles. Introduction to various equipment in thermal power plant.

Introduction to transport phenomena: various modes of transport of momentum and energy - diffusion and advective transport. Modes of heat transfer in various applications. Conduction: Heat diffusion equation, 1-D steady state conduction in extended surfaces, infinite and semi-infinite walls, heat generation, lumped capacitance. Convection: Forced and free convection - mass, momentum and energy conservation equations, non-dimensional numbers, hydrodynamic and thermal boundary layers, basics of heat transfer in external and internal laminar and turbulent flows, and use of co- relations. Radiation: properties, Laws, 3-surface network for diffuse- gray surfaces. Familiarization with heat exchangers. Application area example: cooling of electronics.