---
        title: MLL103 Introduction to the Thermodynamics of Materials
---
Credits: 4 (3-1-0)

Department: Department of Materials Science and Engineering

Concept of state and equilibrium. Heat, work, temperature. System and surrounding. Extensive and Intensive properties. Zeroth law. Ideal gas, reversible and irreversible processes. Adiabatic process. First law of thermodynamics and internal energy. Constant pressure process and enthalpy. Applications of the first law. Specific heat at constant temperature and pressure. Thermochemistry.

Second law of thermodynamics: Kelvin-Planck and Clausisus statements and their equivalence. Entropy. Carnot cycle. Combined statement of first and second laws. Statistical interpretation of entropy, entropy and disorder. Microstate and macrostate. Configurational and thermal entropy.

Auxiliary functions: Helmholtz free energy, Gibbs free energy, Chemical potential. Various thermodynamic partial derivatives and their relations. Maxwell’s relations, Gibbs-Helmholtz equations. Third law of thermodynamics.

Phase equilibria in one-component systems: variation of Gibbs free energy with temperature and pressure, Clausius-Clapeyron equation, P-T diagram.

Thermodynamics of solutions: Raoult’s and Henry’s Law, activity of a component. Ideal solution. Gibbs-Duhem equation and its application.

Non-ideal solutions: Regular solutions. Sievert’s Law, activity and alternative standard states, dilute solutions and interaction parameters. Equilibrium constant, Reaction equilibria for (a) homogeneous reactions consisting of gas mixtures, (b) heterogeneous reactions consisting of condensed phases and gas mixtures, Ellingham Diagram.