---
        title: MLL104 Characterization of Materials-I
---
Credits: 4.5 (3-0-3)

Department: Department of Materials Science and Engineering

Overlaps with: MLL701, CLL736, CML729, PYL707

Studies by optical microscope: Image formation, resolving power, numerical aperture, empty magnification, depth of focus, components of microscopes, important lens defects and their correction, bright field and dark field images, principles of phase contrast, interference and polarized light microscopy, image processing and sample preparation techniques.

X Ray diffraction and their applications: Production and properties of X-ray, absorption of Xrays and filters, X-ray - diffraction directions, diffraction methods. X-ray diffraction intensities, factors affecting intensity, ‘structure factor’ calculations for simple, body centered, and face centered, diamond cubic and hexagonal crystal structures. Working principles of diffractometer, counters and cameras. Indexing of XRD patterns. Precise lattice parameter determination, compositional analysis by X-ray diffraction, determination of particle size and micro/macro strains, polymer crystallinity.

Scanning electron microscope: Interaction of electrons with matter, modes of operation, sample preparation, image formation of plane and fractured surfaces, morphological and compositional analysis.

Spectroscopic Techniques: Fundamentals of spectroscopic analysis using FT-IR, UV-Visible and X-ray Photon Spectroscopy.

Thermal Analysis Techniques: Fundamental basis of DSC/DTA/ TGA and dilatometry.