---
    title: DSL711 Sensors and Transducers
---
**Credits:** 3 (3-0-0)



#### Description 
Transducer Fundamentals: Transducer terminology Design and performance characteristics, --- criteria for transducer selection, Case Studies – Transducers principles of representative cases with emphasis on special “Electronic Conditioning requirements” of different type of sensors-- Resistive transducer; Inductive transducers; capacitive transducers; piezoelectric transducer; semiconductor and other sensing structures. Displacement transducers; tachometers and velocity transducers; accelerometers and gyros; strain gauges; force and torque transducers; flow meters and level sensors; pressure transducers; sound and ultrasonic transducer. Phototubes and photodiodes; photovoltaic and photoconductive cells, photoemission, photo electromagnetic, detectors pressure actuated photoelectric detectors, design and operation of optical detectors, detector characteristics.

Brief Introduction -- Smart Intelligent Sensors, MEMS, Nano. Transducer Performance: Static and dynamic performance parameters Standards: Electrical tests, measurement unit, measurement standards of of voltage, current, frequency, impedance etc .

Errors and noise: types of errors, Effect of noise and errors on resolution and threshold. Dynamic range.

Testing: Calibration, dynamic tests, environmental test, life test. Case Studies in Application of transducers: displacement, velocity, acceleration, force, stress, strain, pressure and temperature measurement. Angular and linear encoders, Radar, laser and sonar distance measurement, Tachometers, Viscometer, densitometer.