---
title: "MSL865 Sales Management"
---
**Credits:** 3 (3-0-0)

**Prerequisites:** [[/Management Studies/MSL301|MSL301]] & [[/Management Studies/MSL302|MSL302]]

#### Description
Module I: Organisational framework of the field sales force. Types and methods of field sales organisations-Career in Field Sales Management. Field Sales Manager- coordinating and controlling the Marketing mix, Tasks and responsibilities, team relations with Salesman and interaction and reporting relationship with Top Management. Operating environment for Field Sales Managers. Sales forecasting.

Module II: Sales Information and Planning, The qualities and role of a Field Sales Manager- Hierarchy of objectives and goals, concept of sales strategies and tactics; types of Planning. Marketing Intelligence and Sales Management. Relationship and contribution of Marketing Research to the sales development as decision making process. Designing and planning of sales territories, procedure for designing sales territories. Determining sales manpower requirements to establish sales territories- Recruiting salesman- selection process and system. Distribution and chamel selection & Management.

Module III: Operational Management, Staffing: Its advantages, responsibility for staffing, tools and methods of selection. Sales training: Its objectives, programme content, Methods of training, concepts of territorial management for field sales force. Measurement and control: General considerations governing evaluation and sales performance and control. Sales audit, Sales budgeting, Key account management, Route Planning and control. Sales Promotion Customer relationship management.