---
    title: MSL863 Advertising and Sales Promotion Management
---
**Credits:** 3 (3-0-0)



**Prerequisites:** [[/Management Studies/MSL301 | MSL301]] & [[/Management Studies/MSL302 | MSL302]]

#### Description 
Module I: Mass communication theory and practices, marketing and promotion mix- interrelationship and interdependence advertising. Sales Promotion, Publicity and Public Relations- Scope, Objectives, activities and creative role. Advertising, objectives tasks and process, market segmentation and target audience- Message and copy development. Mass media, selection, planning, budgeting and scheduling. Integrated programme and budget planning. Implementing the programme, coordination and control.

Advertising Agencies in India, their services and terms, advertisement campaign development, Agency selection and appointment; Agency Organization and operation, Getting the best of the agency services. Analysis of effectiveness of advertisement and promotional campaign.

Module II: Why and when sales promotion support, Sales promotion activities; Consumer Oriented-Sales channel Oriented-Sales staff oriented, Planning, budgeting, implementing and controlling campaigns. Advertisement development brief.

Module III: Valuation and measurement of advertising and sales promotion effectiveness, Company organization for advertising: sales manager, Sales Promotion Manager, Market Development Manager- Role of Tasks, advertising ethics, economics and social relevance. The Public Relations Activities, Public relations and mass media. Media planning and budgeting control.