---
    title: MTL855 Multiple Decision Procedures in Ranking and Selection
---
Credits: 3 (3-0-0)

Department: Department of Mathematics

The problem of ranking and selection, different approaches to the solution of problem. Indifference zone formulation : Ranking normal population in terms of means single and two stage procedures. Ranking normal population in terms of variances. Ranking binomial population-fixed sample size and multistage procedures, play the winner rules and vector at a time sampling. Ranking Gamma population with largest (smallest) scale parameter. Optimal properties of fixed subset size proceduresBayes, minimax and admissibilities properties, subset selection formulation : Decision theoretical formulation, best invariant rules. Restricted subset selection. Subset selection of normal population w.r.t. means and variances, selection of t-best. Subset selection in binomial and gamma populations. Comparison of population with a control. Normal and exponential populations.

MTL856 Lie Algebras 3 Credits (3-0-0) Overlaps with: MTL756

Definitions and examples. Basic concepts. Solvable and Nilpotent Lie algebras, The Engel’s theorem, Lie’s theorem, Cartan’s criterion, Killing form, Finite dimensional semi-simple Lie algebras and their representation theory. The Weyl’s theorem. Representations of sl (2,C). Root space decomposition. Rationality properties. Root systems, The Weyl group. Isomorphism and conjugacy theorems (Cartan subalgebras, Borel subalgebras). Universal enveloping algebras, PBW theorem, Serre’s theorem. Representation theory and characters. Formulas of Weyl, Kostant and Steinberg. Introduction to infinite dimensional Lie algebras.